README.md, before:

# Secure IoT Communication Protocol Simulation (DTLS)

This project demonstrates a secure communication channel designed for IoT (Internet of Things) devices using **DTLS (Datagram Transport Layer Security)**. It simulates a sensor-server architecture where sensitive data is transmitted over UDP.

The project includes a comparison between **Cleartext UDP** (Insecure) and **DTLS Encrypted UDP** (Secure) to showcase the importance of encryption in network security.

## 🚀 Features

* **Secure Communication:** Uses DTLS v1.2 via OpenSSL to encrypt UDP packets.
* **PKI Implementation:** Includes a shell script to automate Certificate Authority (CA) and Key generation.
* **Packet Analysis:** Designed to be analyzed with Wireshark to verify encryption.
* **Insecure Baseline:** Includes a plain UDP implementation for side-by-side comparison.
* **Cross-Platform:** Developed in Python, compatible with Linux and macOS.

## 🛠 Technology Stack

* **Language:** Python 3.x
* **Library:** `pyOpenSSL` (Wrapper for OpenSSL)
* **Protocol:** UDP / DTLS
* **Tools:** Wireshark (for traffic analysis), OpenSSL (for certificates)

## 📦 Installation

1.  **Clone the repository:**
    ```bash
    git clone [https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/SecureIoT-DTLS.git](https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/SecureIoT-DTLS.git)
    cd SecureIoT-DTLS
    ```

2.  **Create a Virtual Environment:**
    ```bash
    python3 -m venv venv
    source venv/bin/activate
    ```

3.  **Install Dependencies:**
    ```bash
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

4.  **Generate Certificates:**
    ```bash
    chmod +x gen_certs.sh
    ./gen_certs.sh
    ```

## 🚦 Usage

### 1. Secure Mode (DTLS)
* **Start the Server:** `python server.py`
* **Start the Client:** `python client.py`
* *Result: Data is encrypted. Wireshark shows "Application Data".*

### 2. Insecure Mode (Plain UDP)
* **Start the Server:** `python insecure_server.py`
* **Start the Client:** `python insecure_client.py`
* *Result: Data is cleartext. Wireshark shows the actual message content.*


## 📄 License
This project is for educational purposes as part of the IT Security module.

Commit message:

Enhance README with proof of concept and installation update
Added proof of concept section with Wireshark analysis for secure and insecure communication. Updated installation instructions with the correct repository link.

README.md, after:

# Secure IoT Communication Protocol Simulation (DTLS)

This project demonstrates a secure communication channel designed for IoT (Internet of Things) devices using **DTLS (Datagram Transport Layer Security)**. It simulates a sensor-server architecture where sensitive data is transmitted over UDP.

The project includes a comparison between **Cleartext UDP** (Insecure) and **DTLS Encrypted UDP** (Secure) to showcase the importance of encryption in network security.

## 🚀 Features

* **Secure Communication:** Uses DTLS v1.2 via OpenSSL to encrypt UDP packets.
* **PKI Implementation:** Includes a shell script to automate Certificate Authority (CA) and Key generation.
* **Packet Analysis:** Designed to be analyzed with Wireshark to verify encryption.
* **Insecure Baseline:** Includes a plain UDP implementation for side-by-side comparison.
* **Cross-Platform:** Developed in Python, compatible with Linux and macOS.

## 🛠 Technology Stack

* **Language:** Python 3.x
* **Library:** `pyOpenSSL` (Wrapper for OpenSSL)
* **Protocol:** UDP / DTLS
* **Tools:** Wireshark (for traffic analysis), OpenSSL (for certificates)

## 📸 Proof of Concept (Wireshark Analysis)

We analyzed the network traffic for both secure and insecure implementations to demonstrate the effectiveness of DTLS.

### 🔒 1. Secure Communication (DTLS)
*With DTLS enabled, the payload is fully encrypted. As seen below, Wireshark captures only meaningless bytes (Application Data). The attacker cannot read the sensor data.*

![Secure DTLS Traffic](images/secure_dtls.png)

### 🔓 2. Insecure Communication (Plain UDP)
*Without encryption, the data is transmitted in cleartext. The sensitive information (`SECRET_DATA...`) is clearly visible to anyone listening on the network.*

![Insecure UDP Traffic](images/insecure_udp.png)

## 📦 Installation

1.  **Clone the repository:**
    ```bash
    git clone [https://github.com/Mitisdre/SecureIoT-DTLS.git](https://github.com/Mitisdre/SecureIoT-DTLS.git)
    cd SecureIoT-DTLS
    ```

2.  **Create a Virtual Environment:**
    ```bash
    python3 -m venv venv
    source venv/bin/activate
    ```

3.  **Install Dependencies:**
    ```bash
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

4.  **Generate Certificates:**
    *Note: Certificates are not included in the repo for security reasons. You must generate them locally.*
    ```bash
    chmod +x gen_certs.sh
    ./gen_certs.sh
    ```

## 🚦 Usage

### Secure Mode (DTLS)
1.  **Start the Server:** `python server.py`
2.  **Start the Client:** `python client.py`
3.  *Result: Data is encrypted. Wireshark shows "Application Data".*

### Insecure Mode (Plain UDP)
1.  **Start the Server:** `python insecure_server.py`
2.  **Start the Client:** `python insecure_client.py`
3.  *Result: Data is cleartext. Wireshark shows the actual message content.*

## 📄 License
This project is for educational purposes as part of the IT Security module.
